content/projects/2015-01-02-ward6.comp.md, before:

---
section: Projects
year: 2015
heading: Ward6
headline: Building an online reputation for a renowned healthcare branding agency.
lede: A content-managed website for a leading health communications agency.
thumbImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1516953103/okok/thumb-ward6.jpg
thumbInCloudinary: true
heroVideo: /images/ward6-video-case.mp4
heroVideoLaptop: true
heroVideoImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1516953959/okok/ward6-hero.jpg
heroInCloudinary: true
tags: website, branding
nextProject: /work/ward6-edetailers
nextProjectHeading: Pharma eDetailer apps
featured: true
---

With offices in Sydney and Singapore, Ward6 is recognised as Asia Pacific's leading
independent health communications agency. I helped transfer this reputation online with a mobile-first website that was easy to use, very fast and a cinch to update and maintain.

> We love our new website! It tells out story really well, and people just get it. Callum has understood who we build boats for, and why we do it.” _Jason Armstrong, Digital Director_

I argued for a move away from Wodpress. In doing so, we were able to implement a checklist of modern website workflow requirements using a [JAMstack](https://www.siteleaf.com/blog/jamstack-ecommerce/) (JavaScript, APIs, & Markup): responsive, performant, git-based, simple to manage, fast and easy to update, allowing easy third-party integrations.

@[MarkdownImage](large src="https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1516953972/okok/ward6-mobile-screens.png")

This website system allowed Ward6 to focus on repeatably presenting and distributing their work, rather than wrestling with website technologies.

@[MarkdownNote](note="Completed in collaboration with Jason Armstrong, Andres Hernandez and Richard Price while working for Ward6.")

@[MarkdownProjectLink](link="http://www.ward6.asia" label="Visit Ward6")

Commit message:

content: finalise copy, add cloudinary URLs

content/projects/2015-01-02-ward6.comp.md, after:

---
section: Projects
year: 2015
heading: Ward6
headline: Building an online reputation for a renowned healthcare branding agency.
lede: A content-managed website for a leading health communications agency.
thumbImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1516953103/okok/thumb-ward6.jpg
thumbInCloudinary: true
heroImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1516953959/okok/ward6-hero.jpg
heroInCloudinary: true
tags: website, branding
nextProject: /work/ward6-edetailers
nextProjectHeading: Pharma eDetailer apps
featured: true
---

With offices in Sydney and Singapore, Ward6 is recognised as Asia Pacific's leading
independent health communications agency. I helped transfer this reputation online with a mobile-first website that was easy to use, very fast and a cinch to update and maintain.

@[MarkdownImage](large src="https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1516953972/okok/ward6-mobile-screens.png")

Poorly maintained content-managed websites cost significant time and effort to resurrect. To avoid this long-term expense, I researched CMS systems against a checklist of modern web development requirements, and settled on a [JAMstack](https://www.siteleaf.com/blog/jamstack-ecommerce/) (JavaScript, APIs, & Markup) setup that gave us git-based content-management, flexible third-party integrations and easy local web development.

@[MarkdownMovie](large laptop src="/images/ward6-laptop-video.mp4")

> Callum's broad understanding of web systems allowed us to understand and choose better long-term decisions during our redevelopment. His diligence meant the final product really does represent what we had imagined.” _Jason Armstrong, ex-Digital Director_

The new Ward6 website allowed us to focus on repeatably presenting and distributing first-class work showcases, rather than wrestling with website technologies.

@[MarkdownNote](note="Completed in collaboration with Jason Armstrong, Andres Hernandez and Richard Price while working for Ward6.")

@[MarkdownProjectLink](link="http://www.ward6.asia" label="Visit Ward6")
