pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title:  A designer who codes
lede: Callum Flack is fluid across graphic design, information design and frontend development. Because the quality of the connections crystalises the quality of the whole.
---

<!-- <div class="ParagraphImage w-1x3 w-lg-3x12 m-r6 p-b3">
<img src="/images/cf-dwts-01-face2.jpg" alt="">
</div> -->

<!-- > The quality of the connections is the key to quality _— Charles Eames_ -->

<!-- @[LazyImage](post src="https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1522317177/okok/callum-beach-bw.jpg") -->

<!-- @[LazyImage](post local src="/images/cf-2.jpg") -->

<!-- Hi, Callum Flack. I'm a digital designer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps. -->

<!-- I'm a graphic designer by trade. I've been immersed in interface design and user experience design since 2006, when I couldn't figure out how to update my MySpace profile.  -->

<!-- <p class="Lede">Hi! I'm Callum. I provide web design and technology services for business owners and creative leaders who are driven to establish trust and inspire change.</p> -->

<!-- LFunctional simplicity is the result of hard, iterative design work. but they are never simply about making things it look nice. -->

<!-- Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two main factors that drive user interface excellence are design rooted in a deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute that design in code. -->

<!-- Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two primary factors for user interface excellence are design rooted in deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute design in code. I address both by being a designer who codes: I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise. -->

<!-- Designing for online attention is hard. And it's doubly difficult to get good design converted into code that you can see working in the hands of your audience, on time and exceeding expectations.  -->

<!-- Unexpected consequences and unforseen scope revisions are common when design tries to become code. The communication bottleneck increases as quality assurance attempts to play catchup to the discovery of new customer intentions, feature requests, issue tracking, production management and website maintenance—I ran into all these troubles myself. So in 2010, after a decade as a graphic designer, I took matters into my own hands and decided to learn to code. -->

<!-- Now I can help you bridge the widening gap between design and development. -->

<!-- Cost overruns, production management, bugs issues, stre  -->

<!-- I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise. Which means I have to understand your intent, what what you offer to your audience. I can only do this in collaboration. So I ask my clients to participate directly with me to understand their audience, prioritise the work within constraints and define what a better tomorrow looks like. -->

<!-- successful digital products and services are made of. -->

<!-- While focussed on design, I'm also an accomplished frontend developer. Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater scope understanding and better decision making, in turn allowing higher rates of design iteration. -->

<!-- Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater understanding of project requirements and better decision making, allowing more confidence to focus on what matters: designing for your customer's intentions. -->

<!-- After all, that's what why they're your customers, and that's how they'll stay your customers. -->

<!-- My passions lie at the intersection of digital user experiences and storytelling; leading teams in reframing and reimagining complex user interactions and technology problems. In my ten years experience, I’ve built a tool chest of technical architectural skills and blended that with a user-first sensibility. I’ve become an effective bridge between the technology and creative worlds. -->

<!-- higher rates of design iteration. -->

<!-- In my spare time, I collect vinyl records of every kind. Finding the uncommon on forgotten records is a constant lesson in noticing details. I also write a <a target="_blank" href="https://callumflack.blog">blog about these kinds of "things inbetween". -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. He is driven by large beauty, small wonder and the curiosity of _why?_. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. Driven by wonder, beauty and curiosity, he bridges the gap between design and code. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. Driven by curiosity, the need to understand how it works and the fine touch of craftsmanship, he bridges the gap between design and code. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a digital designer and frontend developer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. He works fluidly across graphic design, information design and frontend code. -->


<!-- He is driven by wonder, beauty and curiosity. -->

<!-- Callum bridges the gap between design and code.  -->

Understanding the quality of the connections that bridge design and code is the key to creating seamless web interfaces. Callum Flack Design can help you design a visual brand, its user experience and information structure, and he can build it too. The difference isn't obvious until it is. You can break down the work Callum does into three parts:

<!-- After a successful decade working in Brisbane, London and Melbourne as a graphic designer, he was increasingly frustrated with the development bottlenecks of implementing interface design, so in 2010 he started coding. -->

<!-- Unexpected consequences and unforseen scope revisions are common when design tries to become code. The communication bottleneck increases as quality assurance attempts to play catchup to the discovery of new customer intentions, feature requests, issue tracking, production management and website maintenance—I ran into all these troubles myself. So in 2010, after a decade as a graphic designer, I took matters into my own hands and decided to learn to code. -->

<!-- With a keen sense of what constitutes beautiful, actionable design, and a constant dislike of obstacles within interaction flows, Callum is also able to judge the cost of design due to his explicit experience as a developer.

Callum helps clients understand the hidden costs in project decisions and website publishing options, finding better processes which reduce complexities and increase website lifespans. -->

<!-- With a keen sense of what constitutes beautiful, actionable design, a keen sense of obstacles within interaction flows, and explicit experience as a developer, Callum is able to judge the costs and benefits of interface design execution, finding robust solutions that never compromise a human-first experience. -->

<!-- With this explicit experience as a "doer", -->
<!-- which creates the time and confidence to focus building the interface..  -->
<!-- coalface -->
<!-- > The quality of the connections is the key to quality.**Charles Eames** -->
<!-- With his experience as a "doer", he helps clients clarify decisions and reduce project complexities which creates the time and confidence to focus building the interface. -->
<!-- on what matters: executing for business goals and customer intentions -->
<!-- Callum collects typefaces, records, names as tokens of small wonder. -->

<!-- ## Skills & experience -->

<!-- You can break down the work Callum does into three parts: -->

- Brand identity and graphic design
- User interface and information design
  <!-- - digital editorial design -->
- Frontend web development

When Callum builds websites, he advocates for these future-facing tools:

<!-- When I develop websites, I'm familiar with and advocate for these tools: -->

- Building interfaces with Vue.js (or React.js)
- A [JAMstack](https://jamstack.org/) architecture with git-based deployments (where possible)

No tools, skills or experience matter without good project definition and mutual understanding. A collaborative relationship based on dialogue and optimism is the cheapest and most effective method of obtaining this. To ensure this kind of comprehension, Callum will ask questions and listen. This has a knock-on effect: it helps define bigger possibilities and better constraints to work with. 

<!-- our intentions and end -->
<!-- - micro-frontends with functional elements separated by concern -->
<!-- - Integrating Content Management Systems <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headless_content_management_system">headlessly via APIs -->

<!-- (when it's not a web application) -->
<!-- - PostCSS or Sass -->

<!-- Through his blog, Callum places importance on the skill of writing. Not only are people more likely to pay attention to clear, concise writing, personal insight is often only gained with brutal editing. -->

<!-- ### Experienced -->

## Bio

Since starting out in 2000, Callum has worked in London, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, for design studios, advertising agencies and tech startups. Since 2015, Callum and his family have lived in Cairns, Australia. Before teaching himself to code websites starting in 2010, his career highlight was working as a brand designer at Saatchi & Saatchi Design, London in 2006. Callum has also owned and run [a few vinyl record labels in past years](https://www.discogs.com/artist/2452856-Callum-Flack).

> Callum has great eye for detail, yet he also understand the "why" of things. His visual design work is top notch and he never forgets that design serves people. He's always taking the work over the advantage line, so to speak, so he's very easy to collaborate with. **[Brian Hur](https://www.linkedin.com/in/brianhur/), Founder, VetPronto (YCW15)**

<!-- > Development isn't simple. It’s easy working with Callum because he understands this. We work well together to understand problems, define options, improve systems and decide on the course of action." _— <a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://github.com/barryph">Barry Phillip Hall, JavaScript engineer_ -->

<!-- https://github.com/barryph -->

<!-- ## Ways to engage my services

* Improve or redesign your existing digital branding and/or website systems.
* Create a new digital brand and/or website systems from scratch.
* Collaborate as a specialist digital design partner to build and enhance your brand,
  customer workflows or customer community over time. -->

## Contact

Based in [tropical Cairns, Australia](https://www.instagram.com/p/BXbsNdrAt-v), Callum works with local, interstate and international clients. He plugs into product teams, agencies or work one-to-one with business owners. He enjoys travelling to meet in person.

- Email: [callum@callumflack.design](mailto:callum@callumflack.design)
- Phone: [+61(0) 408 767 540](tel:610-408-767-540)
- Twitter: [@callumflack](https://twitter.com/callumflack)


You can also find Callum on these websites:

- [Github](https://github.com/callumflack)
- [Linkedin](https://linkedin.com/in/callumflack)
- [AngelList](https://angel.co/callumflack-gmail-com)
- [Reading Supply](https://reading.supply/@callum)

<!-- The best way to keep in touch is to signup for my bi-monthly newsletter about visual design, user experience and website development through the lens of people and attention:

<div class="fs-scale-reset">
  @[NewsletterSignupForm]
</div> -->

Commit message:

add: rss feed link to About pg

pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title:  A designer who codes
lede: Callum Flack is fluid across graphic design, information design and frontend development. Because the quality of the connections crystalises the quality of the whole.
---

<!-- <div class="ParagraphImage w-1x3 w-lg-3x12 m-r6 p-b3">
<img src="/images/cf-dwts-01-face2.jpg" alt="">
</div> -->

<!-- > The quality of the connections is the key to quality _— Charles Eames_ -->

<!-- @[LazyImage](post src="https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1522317177/okok/callum-beach-bw.jpg") -->

<!-- @[LazyImage](post local src="/images/cf-2.jpg") -->

<!-- Hi, Callum Flack. I'm a digital designer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps. -->

<!-- I'm a graphic designer by trade. I've been immersed in interface design and user experience design since 2006, when I couldn't figure out how to update my MySpace profile.  -->

<!-- <p class="Lede">Hi! I'm Callum. I provide web design and technology services for business owners and creative leaders who are driven to establish trust and inspire change.</p> -->

<!-- LFunctional simplicity is the result of hard, iterative design work. but they are never simply about making things it look nice. -->

<!-- Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two main factors that drive user interface excellence are design rooted in a deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute that design in code. -->

<!-- Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two primary factors for user interface excellence are design rooted in deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute design in code. I address both by being a designer who codes: I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise. -->

<!-- Designing for online attention is hard. And it's doubly difficult to get good design converted into code that you can see working in the hands of your audience, on time and exceeding expectations.  -->

<!-- Unexpected consequences and unforseen scope revisions are common when design tries to become code. The communication bottleneck increases as quality assurance attempts to play catchup to the discovery of new customer intentions, feature requests, issue tracking, production management and website maintenance—I ran into all these troubles myself. So in 2010, after a decade as a graphic designer, I took matters into my own hands and decided to learn to code. -->

<!-- Now I can help you bridge the widening gap between design and development. -->

<!-- Cost overruns, production management, bugs issues, stre  -->

<!-- I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise. Which means I have to understand your intent, what what you offer to your audience. I can only do this in collaboration. So I ask my clients to participate directly with me to understand their audience, prioritise the work within constraints and define what a better tomorrow looks like. -->

<!-- successful digital products and services are made of. -->

<!-- While focussed on design, I'm also an accomplished frontend developer. Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater scope understanding and better decision making, in turn allowing higher rates of design iteration. -->

<!-- Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater understanding of project requirements and better decision making, allowing more confidence to focus on what matters: designing for your customer's intentions. -->

<!-- After all, that's what why they're your customers, and that's how they'll stay your customers. -->

<!-- My passions lie at the intersection of digital user experiences and storytelling; leading teams in reframing and reimagining complex user interactions and technology problems. In my ten years experience, I’ve built a tool chest of technical architectural skills and blended that with a user-first sensibility. I’ve become an effective bridge between the technology and creative worlds. -->

<!-- higher rates of design iteration. -->

<!-- In my spare time, I collect vinyl records of every kind. Finding the uncommon on forgotten records is a constant lesson in noticing details. I also write a <a target="_blank" href="https://callumflack.blog">blog about these kinds of "things inbetween". -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. He is driven by large beauty, small wonder and the curiosity of _why?_. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. Driven by wonder, beauty and curiosity, he bridges the gap between design and code. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. Driven by curiosity, the need to understand how it works and the fine touch of craftsmanship, he bridges the gap between design and code. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a digital designer and frontend developer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps. -->

<!-- Callum Flack is a graphic designer turned web developer. He works fluidly across graphic design, information design and frontend code. -->


<!-- He is driven by wonder, beauty and curiosity. -->

<!-- Callum bridges the gap between design and code.  -->

Understanding the quality of the connections that bridge design and code is the key to creating seamless web interfaces. Callum Flack Design can help you design a visual brand, its user experience and information structure, and he can build it too. The difference isn't obvious until it is. You can break down the work Callum does into three parts:

<!-- After a successful decade working in Brisbane, London and Melbourne as a graphic designer, he was increasingly frustrated with the development bottlenecks of implementing interface design, so in 2010 he started coding. -->

<!-- Unexpected consequences and unforseen scope revisions are common when design tries to become code. The communication bottleneck increases as quality assurance attempts to play catchup to the discovery of new customer intentions, feature requests, issue tracking, production management and website maintenance—I ran into all these troubles myself. So in 2010, after a decade as a graphic designer, I took matters into my own hands and decided to learn to code. -->

<!-- With a keen sense of what constitutes beautiful, actionable design, and a constant dislike of obstacles within interaction flows, Callum is also able to judge the cost of design due to his explicit experience as a developer.

Callum helps clients understand the hidden costs in project decisions and website publishing options, finding better processes which reduce complexities and increase website lifespans. -->

<!-- With a keen sense of what constitutes beautiful, actionable design, a keen sense of obstacles within interaction flows, and explicit experience as a developer, Callum is able to judge the costs and benefits of interface design execution, finding robust solutions that never compromise a human-first experience. -->

<!-- With this explicit experience as a "doer", -->
<!-- which creates the time and confidence to focus building the interface..  -->
<!-- coalface -->
<!-- > The quality of the connections is the key to quality.**Charles Eames** -->
<!-- With his experience as a "doer", he helps clients clarify decisions and reduce project complexities which creates the time and confidence to focus building the interface. -->
<!-- on what matters: executing for business goals and customer intentions -->
<!-- Callum collects typefaces, records, names as tokens of small wonder. -->

<!-- ## Skills & experience -->

<!-- You can break down the work Callum does into three parts: -->

- Brand identity and graphic design
- User interface and information design
  <!-- - digital editorial design -->
- Frontend web development

When Callum builds websites, he advocates for these future-facing tools:

<!-- When I develop websites, I'm familiar with and advocate for these tools: -->

- Building interfaces with Vue.js (or React.js)
- A [JAMstack](https://jamstack.org/) architecture with git-based deployments (where possible)

No tools, skills or experience matter without good project definition and mutual understanding. A collaborative relationship based on dialogue and optimism is the cheapest and most effective method of obtaining this. To ensure this kind of comprehension, Callum will ask questions and listen. This has a knock-on effect: it helps define bigger possibilities and better constraints to work with. 

<!-- our intentions and end -->
<!-- - micro-frontends with functional elements separated by concern -->
<!-- - Integrating Content Management Systems <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headless_content_management_system">headlessly via APIs -->

<!-- (when it's not a web application) -->
<!-- - PostCSS or Sass -->

<!-- Through his blog, Callum places importance on the skill of writing. Not only are people more likely to pay attention to clear, concise writing, personal insight is often only gained with brutal editing. -->

<!-- ### Experienced -->

## Bio

Since starting out in 2000, Callum has worked in London, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, for design studios, advertising agencies and tech startups. Since 2015, Callum and his family have lived in Cairns, Australia. Before teaching himself to code websites starting in 2010, his career highlight was working as a brand designer at Saatchi & Saatchi Design, London in 2006. Callum has also owned and run [a few vinyl record labels in past years](https://www.discogs.com/artist/2452856-Callum-Flack).

> Callum has great eye for detail, yet he also understand the "why" of things. His visual design work is top notch and he never forgets that design serves people. He's always taking the work over the advantage line, so to speak, so he's very easy to collaborate with. **[Brian Hur](https://www.linkedin.com/in/brianhur/), Founder, VetPronto (YCW15)**

<!-- > Development isn't simple. It’s easy working with Callum because he understands this. We work well together to understand problems, define options, improve systems and decide on the course of action." _— <a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://github.com/barryph">Barry Phillip Hall, JavaScript engineer_ -->

<!-- https://github.com/barryph -->

<!-- ## Ways to engage my services

* Improve or redesign your existing digital branding and/or website systems.
* Create a new digital brand and/or website systems from scratch.
* Collaborate as a specialist digital design partner to build and enhance your brand,
  customer workflows or customer community over time. -->

## Contact

Based in [tropical Cairns, Australia](https://www.instagram.com/p/BXbsNdrAt-v), Callum works with local, interstate and international clients. He plugs into product teams, agencies or work one-to-one with business owners. He enjoys travelling to meet in person.

- Email: [callum@callumflack.design](mailto:callum@callumflack.design)
- Phone: [+61(0) 408 767 540](tel:610-408-767-540)
- Twitter: [@callumflack](https://twitter.com/callumflack)


You can also find Callum on these websites:

- [Github](https://github.com/callumflack)
- [Linkedin](https://linkedin.com/in/callumflack)
- [AngelList](https://angel.co/callumflack-gmail-com)
- [Reading Supply](https://reading.supply/@callum)

And if you use RSS, [here's a feed for you](https://callumflack.design/atom.xml). Do keep in touch!
