---
title: Defining Scope is a listening process
lede: Blah
readingtime: 5
heroImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1527842531/okok/aesthetics-nembrotha-aurea.jpg
published: true
tweet: https://twitter.com/callumflack
---

@[MarkdownImage](post local src="/images/post-process-2.jpg")

Recently I started work on a new website with a new client. To kick-off the project, I met them in person and spent a day facilitating a series of branding and website information architecture exercises for them. I want to note here, for myself as much as anything… BLAH HERE

## The Brief is a mandate

For many years before I ran my own business, I would be given a brief at my desk under fluorescent lights from a Client Account Manager. It was my job to take that brief and deliver a result, based on some expectation of getting the job done within a time limit and a quality standard. This was part of the Creative Agency Structure of my experiences, and it mostly worked whereby the Agency made a profit and I got paid. There are lots of disappointing caveats to this process, suffice to say that I no longer sit under fluorescent lights while being handed The Brief.

<!-- the Structure expects an Industrial Era manufacturing-like process which I never really believed in, and so -->

These days, working as myself directly with clients, I don't work to brief. At least not that kind of "brief". Instead I work with clients. And part of that work is to help them to _define a brief that we both think will build their business by using the skills and knowledge I offer_. That's the gist of the thing.

Rather than the old briefs I was given—Word docs with pre-filled agenda items and copy-pasted description fluff—the brief I agree with my clients is more like a mandate. We define overarching goals, set our expectations and, in the process, we understand each other, ready to begin the doing part.

## The Scope is intertwingled\* with The Brief

Once we have a brief, we can define scope. Of course, it doesn't always play out like this. Both brief and scope inform each other. Often times they're drafted once, twice, three times in various stages of continual understanding, discovery and, in the early stages, trust formation. This is a good thing, not a missed opportunity for optimisation. Every time two humans raise a point, listen to each other and clarify their understanding and intent, The Scope gets a little more real.

Put it this way: The Brief is a dance between our mutual expectations of what's possible. At this point, being open minded and curious have huge upsides. And The Scope is a dance between our mutual understanding of the realities of what may happen. At this point, we want to avoid our own biases, be as real as possible, and define a deliverable within a cost.

## The Scope maps beliefs to reality

The Scope is the process of determining the specific requirements and deliverables of a project within the constraints of what I know has happened before and anticipate may happen again, merged with the client constraints of time and monetary costs.

In [Amazon's letter to it's shareholders last year](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312518121161/d456916dex991.htm), Jeff Bezos told a story about perfecting handstands which he uses to illustrate the impact of The Scope:

> A close friend recently decided to learn to do a perfect free-standing handstand. […] She then practiced for a while but wasn’t getting the results she wanted. So, she hired a handstand coach. Yes, I know what you’re thinking, but evidently this is an actual thing that exists. In the very first lesson, the coach gave her some wonderful advice. “Most people,” he said, “think that if they work hard, they should be able to master a handstand in about two weeks. The reality is that it takes about six months of daily practice. If you think you should be able to do it in two weeks, you’re just going to end up quitting.”

He finishes with this gem of a summary:

> Unrealistic beliefs on scope—often hidden and undiscussed—kill high standards. To achieve high standards yourself or as part of a team, you need to form and proactively communicate realistic beliefs about how hard something is going to be.

Note the word "communicate". Both intrapersonally (you and your internal society) and interpersonally (you and another person), communicating is the showstopping constraint for all constraints.

<!-- ## The Scope is always misunderestimated -->

<!-- I know why I work for myself. It may sound trite, but I just want to do great work. As a craftsman, I have high standards that don't seem to have abated since I was, well, seven. -->

## The brief and the scope are communication tools

Going back to my (excellent and responsive) new clients and the workshop day I spent with them, I remember that in the week preceding my visit they queried my agenda for the workshop. They were worried that my approach may have been too "B2C" rather than the "B2B" they thought they were. But given that I had my mandate—and I'd earned their trust in doing so—this issue wasn't a problem. I replied briefly about avoiding any premature categorisations so that we could focus on simply understanding who their target audiences are as people, and what their incentives might be.

I asked them to trust the process. And because we'd already worked through the brief and scope in an initial form, my comments were trusted.

<!-- It's creative work. That it's a website is just the medium I specialise in. -->

<!-- Having given due importance to obtaining a mandate (that is, a "brief") and working to obtain a realistic scope -->

If I were to change tack, google "B2B websites checklist" and execute on it without recourse to prior experience, I guarantee that result would not fulfil the mandate I have with client. It's my job to change the minds of the audience I hope to get in front of. The crux is understanding that every time a data package hits the browser, it's an audience of one. If I don't have some inkling about what's driven that person to view the site, I can't do my job.

@[MarkdownImage](post local src="/images/post-process-3.jpg")

## Take the time to scope it

<!-- That person isn't a category, or a label, but a person. As Michael Wolff says on his [fantastic website](http://www.wolff.eu.com/): "we reach each of us before all of us".-->

When you find another frustrating, ugly website that doesn't live up to it's promises, know that someone skipped on The Scope. As Bezos says, it's _the number one cause of the death of quality_.

Take the time to understand what value you're proposing and who you're proposing it to by spending the effort to scope it.

<!--Any time you estimate what it takes to _do something_ -->

When you define scope against a reality that the future will surely throw at you, you need be prepared to change your mind. To do that, you have to be honest with yourself and your team. That means having open channels of communication that you trust. To get real

So what that really means is that skipping Scope means the partnershipo didn't take the time to understand what their audience was hungry for, and that probably means they didn't take the time to consider that question at all. That's what scope really stands for. And scaope, when it comes down to it, is all about communication.

@[MarkdownNote](note="\*Intertwingularity is a term coined by Ted Nelson to express the complexity of interrelations in human knowledge. It's a great word, isn't it?")
