---
category: essays
showFullArticle: true
published: false
updated: false
title: showFullArticle Test
lede: We use the pre-verbal language of asethetics to sense our environment before we can think. As much as we repel from danger, we're drawn to seamless, cohesive symmetry. In other words, we seek beauty.
readingTime: 5
heroImage: https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1527842531/okok/aesthetics-nembrotha-aurea.jpg
---

A shadow passes just outside our field of vision. But somehow we know it happened because we feel tense. Some sense has triggered our awareness, a sense that isn't logical, a sense that we instead _feel_. We sense the world before we are consciously aware of it through instinctive reactions to the aesthetics of our environment. We understand these reactions in ourselves emotionally. We do this well before we have time to use our linguistic system to think and create meaning. And we do it unconsciously, like breathing, every second of our waking lives.

This happens quickly. At a glance, we notice and assess the multitude of patterns before us. When a pattern signals danger, we feel immediately that "something isn't quite right" even though we can't "put our finger on it". And when a pattern draws us in, we feel it's beauty, and our curiosity.

Like a shadow felt but not consciously seen, we're hardly aware that the language of aesthetics is our first mode of understanding the world.

@[ImageLazyCldOrig](post src="https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1527842533/okok/aesthetics-snake.jpg")

When we use language, we have to think. We have to choose words, connect ideas, assemble metaphors, and then speak them. Thinking is expensive. We use aesthetic-based pattern-matching to give us answers before we consciously start thinking. We rely on aesthetics to make very fast decisions based on a library of intuitons built over a lifetime. The language of aesthetics is pre-verbal by necessity.

When we find a pattern in a scene to be dangerous, like the snake above, then we are electrified, instantly ready to react and avoid danger. All consciousness is focussed on the danger.

When we find symmetry in a scene to be pleasing, then we are calm, ready to begin investigating the scene. We may describe the scene as _interesting_ or _beautiful_ and begin consciously understanding it.

We are _drawn to beauty_ and _repelled by danger_.

Danger and beauty are the two extremes on the spectrum of the language of aesthetics. When we sense danger, we do not think. Instead we react to avoid the situation. Beauty, however, invites us to think. To find beauty is to find information we can use in our favour.
