---
published: false
mostRecentPost: true
category: web systems
title: Unbundled website publishing and what it means for SME
lede: Rather than understanding taste as the particular way a person does a thing, I will argue that it is a measurement of how well a person is able to see and act within a problem space. When business hinges on the user experience and how products make people feel, success or failure is often a matter of taste.
readingTime: 7
heroImageMultiply: true
blockColor: transparent
---

<!-- Build better websites with Reactive Javascript and the JAMstack -->

Last weekend, as I chatted to the mechanic who was diagnosing why our car wouldn’t start, he said “I charged my pressurised tyre jack last night but forgot to put it back in the truck. So this morning I’ve already done two manual tyre changes. What normally takes me five minutes took 25 minutes.” The clincher was what he said next:

> _You don’t miss good tools until you have to use the old tools._

<!-- ## The best tools for the job are ever-sharpening themselves -->
<!-- ## The platform wars spawned better tools -->
<!-- ## Proprietary web publishing has been unbundled by the platform wars -->
## Proprietary web publishing has been unbundled

The web is a quarter century young and all the tools we use to make the web are mutating works in progress. We're seeing platform maturity this decade after the Cambrian explosion of an entirely new medium. This maturity is the result of a second generation of tooling methods that have been driven by the platforms themselves, well honed in the battle for your eyeballs. So it won't surprise you if I tell you _there is a paradigm shift happening in modern web development_.

<!-- ## Proprietary bundled legacy systems are being unbundled -->
<!-- ## Proprietary web publishing is being unbundled -->

Let me give you an example. Some of my clients have small- to medium-sized legacy websites on Wordpress. By legacy, I mean that these websites have been alive for a number of years, I've inherited the project and it's my job to maintain and extend it's lifespan. Because they need a website. _Despite all the social media publishing platforms available, a website is still where a business can retain most control over the presentation of their value proposition,_ and it's probably still the first thing a potential customer will click through to from a search.

_The problem I've seen lately is that these kinds of legacy websites are slow, graceless experiences and my client's audiences know it_. So they're asking me to upgrade these experiences but a quick glance at the codebase tells me 1) it's no wonder they're slow and graceless, and 2) I know there's a better way to do this.

And this better way starts with understanding two important facts:

- _**APIs change everything.**_ In the past, bundling features into a web publishing tool made sense. It wasn't easy to integrate services with an external API because the technology wasn't available. But now it is. So instead waiting for your publishing platform to become a swiss army knife, you can choose to integrate an API-based service who lives and dies by doing that one service better they ever will.

- _**Microservices can afford to do a better job.**_ In the past, your website publishing platform was probably what we now know as a CMS. Like Wordpress. This platform would handle not only the CMS but also the building of your user interfaces. Today the UI build doesn't need to be tied to the publishing platform, and there are better tools for that job that will never be integrated back into the older publishing systems because backward-compatibility prevents it. 

<!-- with what originally made their system a success: they literally have too much legacy to overcome. -->

## The paradigm shift in modern web development

I think we’re seeing _a generational shift in web development between the proprietary bundled legacy systems of the dominant web publishing platforms from 5-10 years ago as they struggle to modernise and compete against the fundamentally different approaches of modern web development,_ where a multiplicity of unbundled open-source and freemium services can be integrated together in a technology stack customised to business requirements. So what exactly are these better tools? 

<!-- ## The new tools—Reactive Javascript and the JAMstack -->
<!-- ## So what exactly are these better tools? -->
<!-- ## So what exactly are these better tools? -->

> And please, speak as you might to a young child, or a golden retriever. <br>**Jeremy Irons in [Margin Call](https://youtu.be/366DExfdQWM?t=53)**

<!-- unbundled dedicated API-based services -->

With the knowledge that proprietary web publishing systems can't compete with the quality and multitude of unbundled API services, let me introduce some new tools that will help you sidestep your legacy website and leverage this paradigm shift.

### Reactive Javascript libraries

As [websites become the new cities](https://pioneer.app/blog/2019-frontier-markets/), platforms have pushed for better tools to build interfaces that are robust, flexible and performant. The reactive programming paradigm is a solution to this problem. Beginning in 2013 with React.js and Vue.js 9 months later, _Reactive Javascript libraries have proven to be a faster, more productive and highly flexible method for building user interfaces (UIs)._ They are now regarded as the go-to method for building performant interfaces, and you can easily hire programmers for them because of their dominance within the programming language market.

<!-- Publishing houses like Squarespace, Wordpress, et al. now all use these Reactive Javascript libraries to build their CMS interfaces, but they don't build your resulting UI with it because they have too much invested in the backward compatibility of their legacy systems that got them success in the first place. -->

### The JAMstack 

[The JAMstack is a an acronym (Javascript, APIs and Markup)](https://jamstack.org/) that symbolises an approach to building websites where each part of the system—interface building, content and services management, and hosting—is treated as a separate concern. These concerns are then integrated together within a web development workflow. Each concern is isolated, so it's free to use the best tool available within the context of your business requirements (otherwise known as the ["technology stack"](https://mixpanel.com/topics/what-is-a-technology-stack/)). 

Unlike relying only on the built-in features of a platform giant, _the JAMstack method that gives you the flexibility to use the best tools for the job_, so that you can create a flexible, customised technology stack that suits your business.

We have briefly discussed how APIs allow best-in-class services to be unbundled from platforms and integrated in a modular fashion. The remaining aspect of the JAMstack method is hosting, where JAMstack nominates "prebuilt Markup". The hosting and delivery of your website is crucial to the end performance and reliability of your website. Prebuilt markup is a process where web pages are prebuilt and delivered to your browser with speed of a cached CDN. This cuts out dynamic page builds, where pages are dynamically built on-the-fly with calls between a database and a remote server before delivery, such as what happens with Wordpress. This is slower and also decreases security.

This creates _a new way of building websites with not just the advantages of a better interfaces but also higher security, a far lower cost of scaling, a simpler developer experience, and no backend._ Yep, that's right: no backend operating systems, specific web servers, backend programming languages, or databases. Like outsourcing services to third parties through an API, hosting is also outsourced by [WebHooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webhook) that prebuild a completely new version of the website on every publish.

The JAMstack also allows for any kind of interface building tools. Which is where I always slot in a Reactive Javascript library for the capabilities it affords, as I've briefly described above.

### Statically rendered websites that turn into SPAs

Once you have this system of tools in place, you can start to extend the user experience beyond what's ever been possible. For example, serving a website made of static prebuilt markup on first lookup, but once loaded chaning the webiste into a Single Page Application, where by the entire site is cached within the browser. this allows for a user experience of instant pages load with no call to the website host's server.

This is made possible, once again, by using a Reactive Javascript library to build the interface.

Note that many of my clients moving off their legacy platforms (yes, it's happening) have raised concerns about the SEO performance of Vue and React powered "static sites". Suffice to say that's a priority of the Javascript community, and there are . Keep in mind, it is in Google's best interests to handle these new web development methods, and they have been able to index Javascript-powered websites for a while now (links here.)

Perhaps the best guide I've read to handling SEO on Javascript static sites is by [Storyblok](https://www.storyblok.com/tp/seo-in-times-of-headless-cms-and-spa). I while be writing on the subject shortly, but until then, these guys are pros.

It's also worth noting that I'm not unveiling anything new here. Reactive Javascript libraries and the JAMstack aren't shiny new objects, but rather website development techniques I've been playing with since 2013.

<!-- ## This shift is an opportunity -->
<!-- ## Don't let hindsight become painful -->
## What happens next

Sometimes it's hard to see change happening in the moment. It's either too slow for us to notice in realtime, like a plant growing, or because we don't see the second- or third-order effects until well after the change has happened, like looking in the rearview mirror of hindsight.

Instead of letting [VUCA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Volatility,_uncertainty,_complexity_and_ambiguity) take hold, and put off thinking about the terrible nightmare of upgrading yourwebsite again, think of it as a really big opportunity. _The tools are already here, they’re just not evenly understood._ 

Better tools make better websites, and a better website should equate to a better customer service. It's just, like most paradigm shifts, we won't know this until time and experience grant us hindsight. Or until we have to go back and use the old tools.

<!-- Better modern web development tools are here. They’re just not evenly understood. But when the new tools become proven and normalised within the culture, then reverting back to old tools will become, well, painful. Just like my mechanic explained. Why wait until it’s obviously painful? 

so that you can own a first class website experience without digging yourself into maintenance hell where you fear updating or publishing -->


<!-- ## RJ

They matter because they have proven to be a more productive method to building user interfaces. Reactive Javascript libraries make it much easier to write code that is modular, understandable, with less bugs. This means you spend less time managing problems and more time focussing on your business goals:

- When state management is handled _reactively_ within the library by it's virtual DOM engine, rather than being intermingled within the real DOM, you can write declarative code that is more predictable, easier to understand and easier to debug.
- Because we're using a scripting to language to build UI, we can write encapsulated components that manage their own state. And we can then compose them to make complex UIs. Any logic is written in JavaScript instead of templates, so we can easily pass rich data through the application and keep state out of the DOM.
- Reactive Javascript libraries are able to be rendered server-side. This does away with the historical complexity of old application frameworks that had huge setup and server management costs. And they were written in a completely different programming language, which you now don't need to learn or outsource for.
- Reactive Javascript can be adapted to any web technology: it’s modular. You can use it in VR as well as in a web page made of HTML. -->

<div class="HeadingSpace"><hr class="ParagraphSpace"><p class="fs-text-sm c-text-light"><span>1. API <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/0812.4360">Link title</a> by J'urgen Schmidhuber.</span></p></div>

<div class=""><hr class="ParagraphSpace bg-transparent"><p class="fs-text-sm c-text-light"><span>2. Taste is knowhow, not knowledge. Knowhow encompasses knowledge and puts it to use. As César Hidalgo says: Knowledge and knowhow are not the same thing. Knowledge involves relationships or linkages between entities. These relationships are often used to predict the outcomes of events without having to act them out. Knowhow is different from knowledge because it involves the capacity to perform actions, which is tacit.</span></p></div>

<div class=""><hr class="ParagraphSpace bg-transparent"><p class="fs-text-sm c-text-light"><span>3. The Latin root meaning of "genius" has fallen from modern usage but still lives on within some domains. For example, in landscape gardening, genius loci refers to a location's distinctive atmosphere, or spirit of place.</span></p></div>

<!-- CMS
Reactive Javascript
JAMstack
UIs, the information that is displayed on your browser screen -->
