content/pages/about.comp.md, before:

---
title: About
lede: Callum Flack is a digital designer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps.
---

<!-- > The quality of the connections is the key to quality _— Charles Eames_ -->

<!-- @[MarkdownImage](post src="https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1522317177/okok/callum-beach-bw.jpg") -->

<!-- @[MarkdownImage](post local src="/images/cf-2.jpg") -->

<!-- Hi, Callum Flack. I'm a digital designer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps. -->

<!-- I'm a graphic designer by trade. I've been immersed in interface design and user experience design since 2006, when I couldn't figure out how to update my MySpace profile.  -->

<!-- <p class="Lede">Hi! I'm Callum. I provide web design and technology services for business owners and creative leaders who are driven to establish trust and inspire change.</p> -->

<!-- LFunctional simplicity is the result of hard, iterative design work. but they are never simply about making things it look nice. -->

<!-- Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two main factors that drive user interface excellence are design rooted in a deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute that design in code. -->

Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two primary factors for user interface excellence are design rooted in deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute design in code. I address both by being a designer who codes: I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise.

<!-- I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise. Which means I have to understand your intent, what what you offer to your audience. I can only do this in collaboration. So I ask my clients to participate directly with me to understand their audience, prioritise the work within constraints and define what a better tomorrow looks like. -->

<!-- successful digital products and services are made of. -->

<!-- While focussed on design, I'm also an accomplished frontend developer. Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater scope understanding and better decision making, in turn allowing higher rates of design iteration. -->

Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater scope understanding and better decision making, in turn allowing higher rates of design iteration.

<!-- In my spare time, I collect vinyl records of every kind. Finding the uncommon on forgotten records is a constant lesson in noticing details. I also write a <a target="_blank" href="https://callumflack.blog">blog</a> about these kinds of "things inbetween". -->

You can roughly breakdown the work I do into three parts:

- Brand identity and graphic design
- User interface design
  <!-- - Digital editorial design -->
- Frontend web development

## Experienced

Since starting out in 2000, I've worked in London, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, for startups, design studios, advertising agencies and SMEs. Since 2015, my wife, our young family and I have lived in Cairns, Australia. Before teaching myself to code websites (starting in 2010), my career highlight was working as a brand designer at Saatchi & Saatchi, London.

> Callum has great eye for detail to create great looking designs and understands users needs to be able to make great user experiences to match. He excels at immersing himself into whatever project he is working on to achieve the users needs and the business goals. _— <a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/brianhur/">Brian Hur</a>, founder of VetPronto (YCW15)_

<!-- > Development isn't simple. It’s easy working with Callum because he understands this. We work well together to understand problems, define options, improve systems and decide on the course of action." _— <a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://github.com/barryph">Barry Phillip Hall</a>, JavaScript engineer_ -->

<!-- https://github.com/barryph -->

<!-- ## Ways to engage my services

* Improve or redesign your existing digital branding and/or website systems.
* Create a new digital brand and/or website systems from scratch.
* Collaborate as a specialist digital design partner to build and enhance your brand,
  customer workflows or customer community over time. -->

## Contact

<a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BXbsNdrAt-v">Based in Cairns, Australia</a>, I currently work with local, interstate and international clients. I plug into product teams, agencies or work one-to-one with my clients. I enjoy travelling to meet in person.

- Email: <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="mailto:callum@callumflack.design">callum@callumflack.design</a>
- Phone: [+61(0) 408 767 540](tel:610-408-767-540)
- Twitter: <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://twitter.com/callumflack">@callumflack</a>

<!-- Schedule: <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://calendly.com/callumflack">callumflack</a> -->

You can also find me on these internet locations:

- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://www.instagram.com/callumflack/">Instagram</a>
- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://github.com/callumflack">Github</a>
- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://linkedin.com/in/callumflack">Linkedin</a>
- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://angel.co/callum-flack">AngelList</a>

The best way to keep in touch is to signup for my bi-monthly newsletter about visual design, user experience and website development through the lens of people and society:

<div class="fs-scale-reset">
  @[NewsletterSignupForm]
</div>

Commit message:

update: add about vinyl record labels to bio

content/pages/about.comp.md, after:

---
title: About
lede: Callum Flack is a digital designer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps.
---

<!-- > The quality of the connections is the key to quality _— Charles Eames_ -->

<!-- @[MarkdownImage](post src="https://res.cloudinary.com/pw-img-cdn/image/upload/v1522317177/okok/callum-beach-bw.jpg") -->

<!-- @[MarkdownImage](post local src="/images/cf-2.jpg") -->

<!-- Hi, Callum Flack. I'm a digital designer who works fluidly across both brand and product to make pragmatic, poetic websites and apps. -->

<!-- I'm a graphic designer by trade. I've been immersed in interface design and user experience design since 2006, when I couldn't figure out how to update my MySpace profile.  -->

<!-- <p class="Lede">Hi! I'm Callum. I provide web design and technology services for business owners and creative leaders who are driven to establish trust and inspire change.</p> -->

<!-- LFunctional simplicity is the result of hard, iterative design work. but they are never simply about making things it look nice. -->

<!-- Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two main factors that drive user interface excellence are design rooted in a deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute that design in code. -->

Seamless web experiences that live up to their promises create audiences and grow business. What it looks like is your promise. How it works is the measure of it. I believe that the two primary factors for user interface excellence are design rooted in deep understanding of user intentions, and the ability to execute design in code. I address both by being a designer who codes: I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise.

<!-- I design interfaces that live up to the brand promise, and I execute in code the stack of details that keep the promise. Which means I have to understand your intent, what what you offer to your audience. I can only do this in collaboration. So I ask my clients to participate directly with me to understand their audience, prioritise the work within constraints and define what a better tomorrow looks like. -->

<!-- successful digital products and services are made of. -->

<!-- While focussed on design, I'm also an accomplished frontend developer. Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater scope understanding and better decision making, in turn allowing higher rates of design iteration. -->

Being able to code means design is no longer fanciful but rather a choice made with the knowledge of what it takes to build it. In turn, this also means greater scope understanding and better decision making, in turn allowing higher rates of design iteration.

<!-- In my spare time, I collect vinyl records of every kind. Finding the uncommon on forgotten records is a constant lesson in noticing details. I also write a <a target="_blank" href="https://callumflack.blog">blog</a> about these kinds of "things inbetween". -->

You can roughly break down the work I do into three parts:

- Brand identity and graphic design
- User interface design
  <!-- - Digital editorial design -->
- Frontend web development

## Experienced

Since starting out in 2000, I've worked in London, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, for design studios, advertising agencies, startups and SMEs. Since 2015, my wife, our young family and I have lived in Cairns, Australia. Before teaching myself to code websites  in 2010, my career highlight was working as a brand designer at Saatchi & Saatchi, London in 2006. I've also owned and run <a target="_blank" href="https://www.discogs.com/artist/2452856-Callum-Flack">a few vinyl record labels in past years</a>, so I know how to create products for a niche community.

> Callum has great eye for detail, yet he also understand the "why" of things. His visual design work is top notch and understands the importance of using design as a tool to cater for user need. He immerses himself in his work, so he's very easy to collaborate with. _— <a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/brianhur/">Brian Hur</a>, founder of VetPronto (YCW15)_

<!-- > Development isn't simple. It’s easy working with Callum because he understands this. We work well together to understand problems, define options, improve systems and decide on the course of action." _— <a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://github.com/barryph">Barry Phillip Hall</a>, JavaScript engineer_ -->

<!-- https://github.com/barryph -->

<!-- ## Ways to engage my services

* Improve or redesign your existing digital branding and/or website systems.
* Create a new digital brand and/or website systems from scratch.
* Collaborate as a specialist digital design partner to build and enhance your brand,
  customer workflows or customer community over time. -->

## Contact

<a class="icon-targetblan" target="_blank" href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BXbsNdrAt-v">Based in Cairns, Australia</a>, I currently work with local, interstate and international clients. I plug into product teams, agencies or work one-to-one with my clients. I enjoy travelling to meet in person.

- Email: <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="mailto:callum@callumflack.design">callum@callumflack.design</a>
- Phone: [+61(0) 408 767 540](tel:610-408-767-540)
- Twitter: <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://twitter.com/callumflack">@callumflack</a>

<!-- Schedule: <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://calendly.com/callumflack">callumflack</a> -->

You can also find me on these internet locations:

- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://www.instagram.com/callumflack/">Instagram</a>
- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://github.com/callumflack">Github</a>
- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://linkedin.com/in/callumflack">Linkedin</a>
- <a class="icon-targetBlank" target="_blank" href="https://angel.co/callumflack-gmail-com">AngelList</a>

The best way to keep in touch is to signup for my bi-monthly newsletter about visual design, user experience and website development through the lens of people and society:

<div class="fs-scale-reset">
  @[NewsletterSignupForm]
</div>
